<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>13. Backbone Patience</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">13. Backbone Patience</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE two packs in this case are to be shuffled separately, one being dealt with at a time. The first step is to form the Backbone, which is effected by dealing from one of the packs twenty cards in pairs, at an angle to each other; each pair slightly overlapping its predecessor, as show in the diagram.</p>
		<p>The twenty-first card is placed horizontally at bottom; and then four cards on each side, also horizontally. to represent the ribs. Any aces which may come to hand during above process are not to be included in the backbone or ribs, but laid by themselves in a row at bottom. These are the foundation cards, and on these are to be formed suit-sequences, terminating with king.</p>
		<p>The lay-out being complete, you begin to “pack” the cards, but only the ribs and the lowest card of the backbone (or the two lowest cards, when two cards are freed by the removal of those below them), are available for use. The first step is to note whether there is among the available cards any deuce corresponding in suit with an ace already laid down. If so, place it on the ace, then look for the three, and so on. Next note whether there are any consecutive cards among the ribs, and if so (as in the case of the five and six of clubs in the diagram) you pack the lower on the higher. The six of diamonds, which lies at the foot of the backbone, may in like manner be packed on the seven, which forms one of the ribs. This is a point which demands special attention. Whenever a card at the foot of the backbone becomes available, it should be placed at once, each card thus removed being a material step on the road to success. Any vancant space in the ribs is at once filled with another card from the pack (or with the top to form it), but the cards of the backbone are not replaced, a chief aim of the player being to get rid of these as soon as possible.</p>
		<p>When you can get no further as above, you begin to deal from the pack to a waste-heap, laying down any aces as they appear, to form foundation cards as already mentioned. You may also pack available as you may think it desirable to do so. You are not bound to make immediate use of consecutive cards, and experience shows that it is not always safe to do so. The premature transfer of a batch of cards to a given sequence may often prevent you completing the corresponding sequence. Cards have an awkward way of appearing in the backbone in reverse order, and will often tax the player’s utmost skill to manipulate them successfully. Sometimes it is even better to let an available card pass to the waste-heap than to play it to another with which it is in sequence.</p>
		<p>As a king at the base of the backbone would naturally be an obstacle of the gravest kind, the player is permitted to transfer a king falling to that position to the bottom of the pack, replacing it by the card next following.</p>
		<p>When the first pack is exhausted, the player continues to deal from the second, no further distinction being made between them. When both are exhausted, the waste-heap is turned over, and dealt once more, but there is no further grace.</p>
		<p>The game is any case a difficult one, and in many cases winning is impractible from the outset, by reason of the unfavourable arrangement of the cards in the lay-out. An experienced player player will perceive at a glance when the game is hopeless, and in such case does not waste his time in endeavouring to achieve impossibilities, but shuffles the cards and begins anew.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
