<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Foreword</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">
		<h1 class="heading">Foreword</h1>

		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS book is my attempt to bring back certainly one of the most interesting books in the public domain. I encountered the author Professor Hoffman (a nom de plume for Angelo John Lewis) while on a day trip to Hartlebury Castle, a former bishop’s palace in Worcestershire, England. The castle has its own museum and the exhibit that caught my eye in particular had an assortment of Victorian era (and onward) board and card games. Of note in this collection were the peculiar circle playing cards, the numberless playing cards and a tiny book accompanying them titled Selected Patience Games by Professor Hoffman.</p>
		<p>After some online research (a.k.a. a lot of Googling) I discovered this book and noticed that Professor Hoffman’s books in general were both tricky and expensive to get hold of, as well as not being generally available to read on public domain archive sites such as Wikisource or Project Gutenberg. However I was fortunate to get my copy of Illustrated Book of Patience Games for very cheap price. I assume the book’s condition and the fact that it was a fifth edition assisted the book’s affordability for me. Aside from a few annotations by previous owners, some inevitable wear &amp; tear and discolouring of pages, I can say the book was good value particularly as an antique. Google had also scanned a copy of the book’s first edition from the Bodlein Library in Oxford, England as part their Google Books archive and had done albeit an OCR scan of the book though with many mistakes.</p>
		<p>One of my main motivations for remastering this book is so I could make the diagrams clearer. It seems Victorian cards had no numbers or letters on them, relying on counting what Professor Hoffman calls the “pips” (see <a href="caesar.xhtml"><span class="sc">9. Cæsar</span></a>) on each card to tell them apart. Also each of the court cards, particularly the kings and jacks (or knaves as this book calls them) can be difficult to tell apart, presumably due to the limitations of 19<sup>th</sup> century printing. I have ensured that each diagram has been faithfully recreated with modern cards courtesy of Chris Aguilar with the exception of the ace of spades and the card backs which I modified myself from them. The card backs used a rampant lion designed by Wikicommons user S@m, which I assembled myself specifically for this book. The alterations I made the cards have been uploaded to Wikicommons, including blue and black variants of the card back design are available on Wikicommons.</p>
		<p>I have kept the text mostly intact with a few alterations appropriate for an e-book such as the removal of page numbers and making the references consist for each page. I have also tried to scan and apply the marks on the end of most of the pages and keep the typesetting consistent with the original book.</p>
		<p>My hope is that you appreciate this remaster and try out at least a few of the 63 games provided in this book.</p>


		<p class="right top4"><span class="sc">Hal Motley</span></p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
