<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Glossary</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">
		<h1 class="heading">Glossary</h1>

		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="top"><b>Auxiliary heap</b> –</p>
		<p><b>Dead cards</b> – Any cards that are unused in a particular patience game.</p>
		<p><b>Deuce</b> – A 2 card of any suit.</p>
		<p><b>Foundation</b> – A stack of cards that is required to be filled to win certain patience games.</p>
		<p><b>Knave</b> – Another name for the jack card.</p>
		<p><b>Patience</b> – The British English name for solitaire.</p>
		<p><b>Pip</b> – An element used for counting, in this book each individual spade, diamond, heart or club in the centre of a playing card is referred to as a pip.</p>
		<p><b>Piquet</b> – A popular trick-taking card game in the 19<sup>th</sup> century that uses a reduced deck with 32 cards consisting of the 7, 8, 9, 10, king, queen, jack and ace of each suit.</p>
		<p><b>Tableau</b> (plural <b>Tableaux</b>) – A vertical stack of cards.</p>
		<p><b>Talon</b> – The stock of a given patience game where more cards are drawn from.</p>
		<p><b>Viz.</b> – An abbreviation for the Latin word <i>videlicet</i> and is used as a formal substitute for namely or in other words.</p>
		<p><b>Waste-heap</b> – An area where cards are discarded from play due to a successful action, for example, after forming pairs.</p>
		<p><b>Whist</b> – A popular trick-taking card game in the 19<sup>th</sup> century that uses a standard 52 card deck.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
