<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>6. Heads and Tails</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">6. Heads and Tails</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">L</span>AY out eight cards face upwards. These are “heads”. Then a second row in like manner (but leaving space for a third row between). These are “tails”. The remaining cards are to be dealt in eight packets of eleven each, between the heads and the tails, likewise face upwards. These are the “reserves”.</p>
		<p>Should any kings be turned up during the above process, or during the subsequent play, they are placed in a separate row above the heads, only <i>one</i> king of a given suit, however, being dealt with in this way. The aces in like manner, one of each suit, are placed in a row below the tails.</p>
		<p>The object of the player is to build, in suit sequence, on the aces and kings thus laid out, and if he can dispose of the whole two packs in this manner, he has won the game.</p>
		<p>The sequences are, however, only to be formed from the head and tail rows, these alone being directly available for use. Whenever a card is removed from the head or tail row, its place is supplied by the top card of the reserve pack immediately below or above it.</p>
		<p>As an aid to success, the player is permitted to form auxiliary sequences (ascending or descending), in the head and tail rows. Thus you may play an eight of diamonds on the seven, and a nine on the eight. Should a ten of diamonds appear in one of the descending sequences, the three cards above-named may then be played to it, in reverse order.</p>
		<p>You may also reverse a sequence by transferring it from the head to the tail row, or <i>vice versâ</i>. Thus, having formed an auxiliary sequence in the head row as above, suppose that a six of diamonds appears in one of the ascending sequences. You have then three cards ready to play to it, but they are useless, being in the wrong order. Should a ten of diamonds, however, appear in the tail row, you play the above three cards in succession to it, thus reversing their order, when they become available to be played to the principal sequence.</p>
		<p>When either of the reverse packets becomes exhausted, its place is supplied by the top card of the packet next on the left, or if the packet so exhausted be the first, then by the top card of the last packet.</p>
		<p>This game occupies a medium position, being neither very easy nor very difficult, but it is a good one, as giving full scope for the excercise of judgment on the part of the player.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
