<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>62. Here and There</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">62. Here and There</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(For two players. With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS also is a two-handed game. As in the case of that last described, the players commence by cutting, and he who cuts highest begins, which he does by turning up his uppermost card. This fixes the foundation-cards for eight different heaps, to be built up each of one suit, and in ascending order of sequence. Thus if the first card were a <i>seven</i>, all the sevens of the two packs, as they chance to present themselves, are laid down as foundation cards, and on each is built up a family of the same suit in ascending sequence, terminating with the <i>six</i>.</p>
		<p>So soon as the first player comes to a card which is not playable, he lays it before him as the first card of a waste-heap, and the right to play then passes to the second player, who turns up <i>his</i> cards one by one, and, if their nature permits, plays them to one or other of the foundations. Each player, when it is his turn to play, has the right to play a given card (not available for the main sequences) upon the waste-heap of his adversary, so long as it is in ascending or descending sequence (irrespective of suit) to the top card of such heap. It should be his endeavour by this means to increase the heap of his adversary as much as he possibly can, for in this case, as in the last, the player who first manages to get rid of all his cards, wins the game.</p>
		<p>The waste-heaps are dealt over and over again as often as may be necessary, but each player is bound to leave his waste-heap exposed until his antagonist can no longer play, when it becomes his own turn. Then, and not till then, he may pick up his cards.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
