<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Indicia</title>
</head>

<body>
		<h1 class="indicia-heading">Professor Hoffman's Patience Games</h1>

		<p class="indicia top">Copyright Hal Motley 2018</p>
		<p class="indicia">This book's covers, foreword and glossary are licensed under Creative Commons Non-Commercial 3.0 license: <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/">https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/</a></p>

		<p class="indicia top">Images used have been adapted from Wikicommons, modications made have been uploaded under <i><a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Ace,_3_card_backs_and_a_blank_card.svg">Ace, 3 card backs and a blank card</a></i>:</p>
		<p class="indicia"><a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Color_52_Faces_v.2.0.svg"><i>Color 52 Faces v.2.0</i></a> by Chris Aguilar under LGPL 3.0.</p>
		<p class="indicia"><a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Lion_rampant.svg"><i>Lion rampant</i></a> by S@m under CC-BY-SA 3.0.</p>

		<p class="indicia top">E-book production by Hal Motley:</p>
		<p class="indicia bottom"><a href="https://www.github.com/inferno986return/">https://www.github.com/inferno986return/</a></p>

		<hr class="long-line"/>


		<h2 class="indicia-heading">The Illustrated Book of Patience Games</h2>

		<p class="indicia top">Translated and Edited from German by <span class="sc">Professor Hoffman</span>, author of <i>“Modern Magic”, “Drawing-Room Amusements”</i> etc.</p>
		<p class="indicia">Professor Louis Hoffman was the nom de plume of Angelo John Lewis (1839–1919).</p>

		<p class="indicia top">5<sup>th</sup> Edition</p>

		<p class="indicia top">Originally published in 1904 by <span class="sc">George Routledge &amp; Sons Limited</span> in London, England.</p>
		<p class="indicia bottom">This work is therefore available in the public domain in both the US and UK as it was published prior to 1923.</p>

		<hr class="long-line"/>


		<h2 class="indicia-heading">Selected Patience Games</h2>

		<p class="indicia top">By Angelo Lewis M.A. (<span class="sc">Professor Hoffman</span>), <span class="sc">editor of</span> <i>“The Book of Card and Table Games", “Hoyle's Games Modernized", &amp;c.</i></p>

		<p class="indicia top">Originally published in 1921 by <span class="sc">Chas. Goodall &amp; Son Ltd.</span>, Camden Works, London, England.</p>
		<p class="indicia bottom">This work is therefore available in the public domain in both the US and UK as it was published prior to 1923.</p>

		<hr class="long-line"/>


		<h2 class="indicia-heading">Cydopædia of Card and Table Games</h2>

</body>
</html>
