<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Introduction</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">Introduction</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE first step, in the case of most Patience Games; is to arrange a certain number of cards face upwards on the table. The cards this arranged are known as the “lay-out”, or <i>tableau</i>. The cards remaining in the hand after the lay-out has been formed constitute the “stock”, or <i>talon</i>.</p>
		<p>During the course of play, each card of the stock is usually turned up in sucession, and if suitable, dealt or placed in a particular manner. If, according to the rules of the particular game, it cannot be so placed, it is laid face upwards in front of the player, the cards so dealt with being known as the “waste-heap”, or “rubbish-heap”.</p>
		<p>A card dealt face upwards and not covered by any other is known as an "exposed" card. A card dealt face downwards as a “covered” card, whether they be any other above it or not. Any cards thrown out beforehand, and not used in the particular game described, are known as “dead” cards.</p>
		<p>Should the player, as often happens, reach a point where, according to the rules of the particular game, he can proceed no further, he is said to be “blocked”, or “chockered”. In some instances this terminates the game. In others the player is allowed a “grace” or further chance, either by altering the position of a card or cards, or by dealing the waste-heap afresh.</p>
		<p><i>Sequences</i> may be either “ascending”, as Ace, Deuce, Three, &amp;c., or “descending”, as King, Queen, Knave, and so on. In some cases it is required that the series consist of <i>cards of the same suit</i>. In this case it is known as a <i>Suit Sequence</i>; in the opposite case as a sequence <i>regardless of suit</i>.</p>
		<p>The whole merit of success in a Patience Game depends on its being played fairly; <i>i.e.</i>, with the cards at starting in absolutely fortutious order. To ensure this, <i>thorough</i> shuffling is necessary. In order thoroughly to mix the cards, first shuffle in the ordinary way, then deal the cards in four or five heaps, not regularly but in zigzag fashion, going say from heap 1 to heap 3, from heap 4 back to heap 2, and the like. Then gather up the cards and play. If after such a shuffle you win the game, you will the satisfaction of feeling that you have secured a genuine victory.</p>
		<p>In playing, some persons hold the pack in the hand in the ordinary way, face downwards – others hold it <i>face upwards</i>, thus gaining in advance sight of the next card to be played, which is often a material help. There is no unfairness about this practice, and we commend its adoption to our readers, at any rate in this case of the more difficult games.</p>

	</div>

</body>
</html>
