<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>49. La Capricieuse</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">
		<h2 class="heading">49. La Capricieuse</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU separate, in the first place, four aces and four kings, one of each suit, and lay them in two rows, the one above the other. These eight cards form the foundations of eight families, each of one suit; those based on the aces being in ascending, and those on the kings in descending order of sequence.</p>
		<p>The cards having been duly shuffled and cut, the first twelve are laid out, face upwards, in a horizontal row; below this a second and third row of like number, and so on till the cards are exhausted. (The positions of these rows, or rather of the first three of them, are indicated in our illustration by outline cards.) If space is limited, the cards may be so placed that the cards of the second row half-cover those of the first, those of the third half-covering the second, and so on. Whenever in course of the distribution a card presents itself which is playable (as being of like suit and in ascending sequence) to one of the aces, or (as being of like suit and in descending sequence) to one of the kings, it is forthwith played to the appropriate foundation, but when a card has once taken its place in the line, it is not allowed (even though it may not yet be blocked by another row beneath it) to be removed and played to a foundation.</p>
		<p>The whole pack having been laid out after the manner above described, you must in the first place assure yourself whether the row last laid out (and therefore not blocked by any other) comprises any cards which can be played to either of the families. Your next care will be to see if any cards (of like suit) in this same row are, as between themselves, in sequence, and if so, lay them one upon the other in ascending or descending order. Thus on a nine of spades either an eight or a ten of the same suit may be laid; on a queen of hearts either a king or knave of hearts, and in like manner throughout. Any cards which by this shifting process are made free (<i>i.e</i>, have no card left immediately below them in the row next following), may be played (suit and value permitting) either to the foundations, or upon <i>the bottom card for the time being of any perpendicular row</i>. In so doing it should be borne in mind first to free such cards as are most likely to assist the further progress of the game.</p>
		<p>When you have done all you possibly can in this direction, and are fairly brought to a standstill, you gather up the cards, beginning with the perpendicular row on the left hand, and carefully avoiding any disturbance of their order. You then proceed to a second (and if needful a third) distribution of the cards according to the rules laid down for the previous one. If at the end of the third deal all the cards are not used, and the families thereby completed, you have lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
