<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>50. La Nationale</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">
		<h2 class="heading">50. La Nationale</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">H</span>AVING picked out the four aces and four kings belonging to one of the packs, and having (as in the game last described) laid them out in two horizontal rows,<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> you mix the two packs together, shuffle and cut them, and then proceed to lay out a perpendicular row of eight cards. If space does not allow you to place these fairly one below the other, the second may lap over the first, the third over the second and so on, each covering half the surface of the card above it Next to this first row of eight cards you lay another row, and another, to the number of twelve in ail, as indicated in the diagram by outline cards.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>
		<p>The four aces at top form the foundations of four families of like suit, rising in ascending sequence, and terminating with king. The kings form the foundations of four other families, in descending sequence and terminating with ace.</p>
		<p>If during the dealing of the perpendicular rows any cards present themselves suitable to be played to one or other of the foundations, they are played to their respective families accordingly. When all the cards are laid out, you have on the table twelve perpendicular rows, but these will consist of various numbers of cards, for if in the course of your laying out a row one or more cards have been found suitable to the foundations, and have been played thereto accordingly, this row must not be completed with other cards from the pack; if therefore tivo cards of a given row have been employed as above mentioned, the row will contain, not eight, but six cards only. In order to avoid any possibility of mistake, it is safest to count the eight cards of each row, as you place them upon the table, and not to interrupt the reckoning, even though one or more cards may, in accordance with the rules, have been transferred to the foundations.</p>
		<p>If during the distribution of the two packs the last card of one or more rows can be played to either foundation, this should be done accordingly, for it is a cardinal rule of this and all similar Patiences, that only the last cardai a given perpendicular (<i>i.e.</i>, that upon which no other card lies) is available for play, and that only when such card is removed does its predecessor in the row become free for similar employment.<a href="#ref-doubledagger" id="cit-doubledagger">‡</a></p>
		<p>When you have laid out the twelve rows of cards according to the foregoing instructions, and satisfied yourself that neither of the final cards can be played to a foundation, you are entitled (still as among these final cards only), to lay one upon the other any two cards which may be alike in suit, and m sequence in point of value. For example, you may take an eight of spades (being the last card of its respective row), and place it on either a nine or seven of spades, which also chances to be the last of its row. The removal of the card thus dealt with releases for use the one next preceding it, and upon the auxiliary sequence so formed you may in like manner lay any card thus freed, which may serve to continue the sequence.</p>
		<p>Before grouping cards as above, however, you should carefully examine the various combinations already subsisting, so as to shift the cards in such manner as may be most conducive to the ultimate success of the Patience. You should further take the earliest possible opportunity to clear off a complete row, for you are allowed to shift to the vacant place thereby created the final card of any row, or any provisional sequence, however extensive, of cards of a given suit.</p>
		<p class="bottom">If, after availing yourself of all these indulgences, cards still remain which you have not been able to play to their respective families, you have lost the game.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> See illustration to <span class="sc"><a href="lacapricieuse.xhtml">49. La Capricieuse</a></span>, which is equally appropriate to <span class="sc">La Nationale</span>.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> The three first cards of each perpendicular row alone ate shown, the remainder being omitted for lack of space. It will be seen that the arrangement is precisely the same as that of <span class="sc">La Capricieuse</span>, save that the final 96 cards are dealt perpendicularly instead of horizontally.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-doubledagger" id="ref-doubledagger">‡</a> Suppose, for instance, that the last card of a given row is the three of spades. So soon as, in laying out the subsequent rows, the two of spades appears, it will be played toils appropriate ace, and the three at once laid upon it. Similarly if the last card of a given row be a knave, and the queen of the same suit makes its appearance from the stock.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
