<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>31. Lucas</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">31. Lucas</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whists pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">F</span>ROM the two packs pick out the eight aces and spread them in a row on the table. Beyond them, from the remaining cards, first duly shuffled and cut, deal three rows as shown in the illustration, each row consisting of thirteen cards.</p>
		<p>If in the lower of the three rows are found any cards in sequence to either of the foundation cards (the aces) they are placed thereon. When a card of the third, or lower, row has been removed, the corresponding card of the row above it becomes the lowest card, and may be dealt with accordingly. Should two or more cards of this lower row be alike in suit, and in sequence one to the other, the less is laid upon the greater, and when the final or uppermost card of such a series can in course of play be played to the foundation card, the whole series is transferred with it.</p>
		<p>The cards which cannot be thus employed are laid face upwards to form a waste-heap, the uppermost of such cards remaining in play, and being placed whenever an opportunity occurs.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">The player is in this case limited to one re-deal of the waste cards.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> It is an understood thing in all Patience Games, that the uppermost card for the time of the waste-heap, if any, is available for any use that can be made of it.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
