<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>9. Nestor</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">9. Nestor</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU lay out, as shown in the illustration, six rows of eight cards each. You will thus have four remaining as a reserve. You must take care not to have in the same vertical line two cards of the same value <i>e. g.</i>, you must not have two kings or two fives placed one above the other, even though other cards intervene. If, in laying out the rows, such cards present themselves, you transfer them to the bottom of the pack.</p>
		<p>Having laid out the six rows according to the foregoing instructions, and placed the four reserve cards beside them, you begin by removing from the lowest row any two cards alike in value, say two aces or two kings, and then proceed in like manner with the other rows, bearing in mind however that you are only to remove cards <i>which have no other card below them</i>. Thus you cannot take any card from the centre portion of the <i>tableau</i>, until all those vertically beneath it have been already used.</p>
		<p>The four “reserve” cards may be made use of one by one, as occasion may arise, to get you out of a difficulty. Thus, should there be in the lower row for the time being, no two cards alike you may use one of the reserve cards to effect the needful “pair”.</p>
		<p>To win the game, the whole of the cards must be paired and thrown out as above.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
