<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>8. New York Patience</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">8. New York Patience</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS has a pretty close resemblence to <span class="sc"><a href="thedemon.xhtml">7. The Demon</a></span>. Lay out eight cards in a row, face upwards. These are to form heads of columns. The nineth card turned up determines the “bases”. This and the other cards of like denomination, as they appear, are laid so as to form a second row, above the first. Should a card of the base series be among the heads of columns, it is at once removed to its proper place, and the vancancy filled by the next card from the pack.</p>
		<p>The object of the player is to form ancending suit-sequences on the bases, and descending sequences in alternate colours, on the heads of columns. Turning up one card at a time from the stock, he proceed to play it to the lay-out, if its nature permits, or if not, to one or other three waste-heaps, the top card of each which remains always available.</p>
		<p>Where a card can be played to one of the bases, this must be done at once. With regard to a card playable to either of the columns, the player may use his discretion whether he so plays it, or places it, for the time being, on one or other of the waste-heaps, success or failure depending a good deal on the judgment which he displays in this particular.</p>
		<p>If by the time the player reaches the last card of the stock, he has not succeeded in placing all the proceeding cards, he has lost the game, no re-dealing of the waste-heaps being permitted.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
