<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>11. Puss in the Corner</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">11. Puss in the Corner</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS game is a derivative from <span class="sc"><a href="theoriginalpatience.xhtml">1. The Original Patience</a></span>. The first step is to take out the four aces, and to place them, face upwards to form a square. Having duly shuffled the remaining cards, the player begins to deal to four depôts, one at each corner of such square, not consecutively, but as may best tend to the achievement of his object, <i>viz.</i>: the formation of ascending sequences on the four aces, irrespective of suit, but maintaining the colour, so that diamonds may be intermixed with hearts, and spades with clubs, but not black cards with red ones.</p>
		<p>The speciality of the game, from which its name is derived, is that whenever a <i>seven</i> (of any suit) turns up, any number of cards may be transferred, without disturbing their order, from any one corner heap to the top or bottom of any other. A double change is permissable, subject to the condition that the same heap must not be disturbed twice in the same turn. Thus if the player has transferred cards from the left-hand top corner to the right-hand bottom corner (or as they case may be), any further transfer (so far as the same seven is concerned) can only be between the heaps occupying the two other corners.</p>
		<p>When the player comes to the end of the cards in hand, he gathers up the depôt cards, without shuffling, and deals them in four heaps once more, with the same privilege as to any seven turning up during the process. If at the close of this second trial the sequences are still incomplete, he has lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
