<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>55. Queens and Knaves</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">55. Queens and Knaves</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU remove the queens of both packs, and spread them in two rows on the left-hand side of the table. This done, you shuffle and cut the remaining cards, and proceed to deal them one by one to a waste-heap. As the kings come to hand they are likewise to be laid in two rows, on the <i>right-hand</i> side of the table. (Their positions are indicated in the diagram by the outline cards.) Should cards appear which are playable in descending sequence (irrespective of suit) upon the queens, they are placed thereon accordingly. These constitute reserve heaps, which, when it becomes practicable to do so, are to be shifted, in reverse order, on to the appropriate kings.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> The eight kings constitute as many foundations, on which are to be built up families alike in suit and in ascending sequence (ace, two, three, and so on), every available card turned up in course of the deal being played thereto accordingly. These eight families are to begin with king and end with knave, and the cards of which they are formed must throughout be alike in suit.</p>
		<p class="bottom">The cards are in this game dealt only once through. If at the close of the deal there are cards still remaining unplaced, you have failed. To succeed, the eight queens must appear on the one side, and the eight sequences, each headed by knave, on the other.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> With the exception of the queens themselves, which retains their places.</p>
	</div>

</body>
</html>
