<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>10. Reversible Sequences</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">10. Reversible Sequences</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS is an exceptionally good game, giving much scope for the excercise of thought and judgment. You begin by dealing out the whole of the cards, face upwards, in four rows of thirteen. The cards of the row nearest to you are known as “free” cards, and when either is removed, making a gap in the row above it in turn becomes a free card, <i>i.e.</i>, available for play. When this is removed, the next beyond it becomes free, and so on.</p>
		<p>Having completed your lay-out, the next step is to note whether there are in the “free” row any kings or aces. Should there be any such, you remove them, and place them apart, to form foundations of sequences, the object of the game being to form four foundations of sequences, the object of the game being to form four complete suit sequences, either ascending from ace to king, descending from king to ace, or some in the one, some in the other direction. As there can be only four such sequences, it follows that should there be among the free cards both ace and king of the same suit, you withdraw only one of them; for preference, that one which by its removal frees the most convenient card behind it.</p>
		<p>It may, however, well happen that there is at the outset no ace or king in the free row, or should there be such, you will soon reach a point at which you can play on it no longer. When such is the case, you proceed, still using only the free cards, to form auxiliary sequences of two or more cards, to be played later on to their proper destination. Should there among the free cards be two in sequence, you are at liberty to place either the higher on the lower, or <i>vice versâ</i>, as may best suit you. Nay more, you may put the higher card under the lower, or the lower under the higher, this making a material difference as to which card you remove from its place, and consequently what card you free behind it.</p>
		<p>Thus, if you have among the free cards an eight and a nine of spades; you may not only place the eight on the nine, or the nine on the eight, but you may place eight under the nine, or the nine under the eight. The same thing applies to a partly formed auxiliary sequence. Thus, suppose you already have a sequence consisting of the six, seven, and eight of hearts, the latter uppermost. You may play to this, should the needful card become free, either the nine or five of hearts, the nine being played to the top, or the five to the bottom.</p>
		<p>Should you find it desirable to reverse a given auxiliary sequence, this may be done by aid of an additional card, in sequence to it in the proper direction. Thus in the case supposed, of a sequence consisting of the six, seven, and eight of hearts, the latter uppermost. You desire to reverse it. To do this, you must wait till the nine of hearts becomes free</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
