<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>35. Rouge et Noir</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">35. Rouge et Noir</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">R</span>EMOVE the eight aces from the two packs, and lay shown in the figure. Shuffle and cut the remaining cards, and deal out a row of auxiliary cards, also eight in number.</p>
		<p>If among such auxiliary cards there happen to be any which can be played upon an ace (with the view of establishing an ascending sequence of like suit from ace to king inclusive) they are employed accordingly, and the vacancies thereby created in the row of auxiliary cards are filled up from the stock.</p>
		<p>You next take notice whether, among the eight auxiliary cards, there are any which can be packed one upon the other in descending sequence, <i>but in alternate colours</i>; for instance, on a <i>black</i> nine you must play a <i>red</i> eight, followed by a <i>black</i> seven and a <i>red</i> six, and so on. On a red queen you must play a black knave, followed by a red ten, and so on.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> You thus form reserve heaps, on which, when opportunity serves, you draw to complete the principal series.</p>
		<p>The remaining cards you deal to a waste-heap. Whenever a card presents itself that can be played to either of the foundation-heaps, you place it in position accordingly. In like manner with any card in descending sequence to the top card of either of the auxiliary heaps, you lay it upon such heap, duly observing the rule as to alternation of colour. While thus dealing through the stock, you must keep a careful eye on the top cards of the auxiliary heaps, and at the earliest opportunity transfer them to the principal heaps.</p>
		<p class="bottom">When the pack is exhausted, you gather up the waste-heap and begin to deal it afresh. When the eight series, each containing the cards of one suit, from ace up to king, are made complete, the game is won.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> This materially increases the difficulty of the game. By reason of the alternate arrangement of the auxiliary heaps, only one card at a time can be played to the same foundation heap, for the card next following, though right in point of value, will be wrong in point of suit.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> It is to be observed that the alternate arrangement of colours only applies to the <i>auxiliary</i> heaps.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
