<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>6. Royal Marriage</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">6. Royal Marriage</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With the whist pack of 52 cards.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU remove from the pack in the first place the king and queen of hearts; then shuffle and cut, and after having done so, place the king at bottom, so as to be the last card. The queen of hearts is laid face upwards on the table; then the remaining cards, one by one, beside the queen. If the third card turned up (reckoning the queen of hearts as the first) chance to be a <i>queen or a heart</i>, you throw out the intervening card. In like manner with the other suits ; you throw out the cards which intervene between two cards of the same suit or same value. You are, however, only entitled to do this so long as there are but <i>one</i> or <i>two</i> cards between the two so corresponding. If more than two cards intervene they cannot be so dealt with.</p>
		<p class="bottom">If at the close of the deal you have succeeded in throwing out all the cards, so that the last, the king of hearts, is reunited to the first, the queen of the same suit, which you laid on the table, you have won the game. If one or more cards still remain between the queen and the king, you have failed.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> There is an English version of this game known as Push-pin Patience, from the fact that the intervening cards are pushed up out of the row preparatory to being removed from the pack. In this version the player has an additional privilege, viz., that wherever a series however numerous, of cards <i>of one suit</i>, intervenes between two cards alike in suit or value, such series may be discarded. There is a further grace, viz., that if at the close of the deal there is still a row of cards remaining, you may transpose two of them to any positions you please, thus gaining fresh opportunities of discarding. These indulgences greatly increase the chances of success, which in the game in the text are decidedly against the player. Dr. Pole (<i>Cyclopædia of Card and Table Games</i>) gives yet another version, under the name of Discards. In this case there is no special reverence shown to king and queen, but the pack, after being well shuffled, is cut again and again till it has a card of same suit at lop and bottom. The player is entitled to discard —</p>

		<ol class="ref">
			<li>Any <i>one</i> card lying between two of the same suh or rank, as between two hearts or two kings.</li>
			<li>Any <i>two cards of same suit or rank</i> lying between two of the same suit or rank, <i>e.g.</i>, two aces between two knaves, two fives between two hearts; two spades between two kings, or two diamonds between two clubs.</li>
		</ol>

		<p class="ref">Should the player, as usually happens, be left at the close with a row of unmanageable cards, he is permitted to throw out any three of them at his pleasure. If this enables him, according to the rules above given, to clear off the remainder, he is considered to have won the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
