<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>9. St. Helena Patience</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">9. St. Helena Patience</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS game is asserted, with what truth we know not, to have been invented to amuse Napoleon Bonaparte in his captivity.</p>
		<p>The lay-out is rather elaborate. From one of your two packs, before shuffling them together, you take the four kings and the four aces, and place them before you in two rows, the king row uppermost. The shuffling the remainder of the two packs, you deal from them twelve cards face upwards (placing them round the kings and aces, as shown in the diagram), and continue to deal round and round on these until all the cards are exhausted. Before commencing the second round, however, you note carefully whether any of the cards just dealt are playable to either of the two central rows, the object of the player being to form descending suit-sequences on the four kings, and ascending suit-sequences on the four aces.</p>
		<p>This however, is to be done subject to the following restrictions. – Cards in the top row are only available to be played to the “king” series; and cards in the bottom row only to the “ace” series. The carda at the sides, on the other hand, may be played to either series. Thus, examining our lay-out, as above, we find that the queen of clubs can be played on the king of clubs, the queen of diamonds on the king of diamonds, and the two and three of hearts on the ace of hearts, their places being supplied by fresh cards from the stock. Some of these may give oppurtunities of further play. If not, you proceed to deal a second round on the cards of the outer circle, noting, card by card, whether any oppurtunity offers of packing on either of the sequences.</p>
		<p>You continue as above till the whole of the stock is exhausted. When this is the case, you have, for the time being, somewhat wider licence in dealing with the exposed cards. You may now play <i>any</i> available card, whether in the top or the bottom row, to the ace or king sequences. You are further at liberty to form “marriages” between any cards alike in suit, and next to one another in value, placing the one on the other (either the higher on the lower, or <i>vice versâ</i>), so that when oppurtunity serves you may play the two in succession.</p>
		<p>The order in which you place them will be governed by the condition of the centre packets of the same suit, <i>e.g.</i>, if the ace of spades series is complete as far as ten, and a six and seven of the same suit are exposed, these clearly can only find a place in the king or descending series, and the seven will be needed before the six. You therefore place the former upon the latter.</p>
		<p>When the cards as originally dealt admit of no further transpositions, you gather the surrounding packets up again in regular succession, but in reverse order to that in which you dealt them, and without shuffling, again deal them round as at first. So long as there are any cards in hand, the original restrictions (as to playing from the top or bottom row respectively) revive.</p>
		<p>This may be done a second time, but if in these three attempts you have not completed the principal sequences, showing a row of aces above and kings below, you have lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
