<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>63. Sympathy</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">63. Sympathy</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(For two persons. With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">A</span>LTHOUGH a two-handed, this is not an antagonistic game, for both players pursue a common object. Both win or neither.</p>
		<p>Each of the two players takes a complete pack, shuffles it, and others it to his adversary to cut. This done, each divides his cards into sixteen heap; of three each, which he arranges before him in four rows, <i>face downwards</i>, on the table, laying the four remaining cards, which are known as the "grace" cards, also face downwards, in a supplementary heap just below the fourth row.</p>
		<p>Each player having thus laid out his cards (as represented at the right hand of our illustration), the leader turns over the top card of each of <i>his</i> sixteen heaps, so that it shall be face upwards. (To save time, this turning up of the top cards may be done in the act of laying out the sixteen heaps.) The cards then appear as shown on the <i>left</i>-hand side of our illustration.</p>
		<p>The second player now turns up, one by one, the uppermost cards of his sixteen heaps, naming each as he does so. If the first player finds, among his exposed cards, one of like suit and value, each player throws the card thus "paired" aside, and the second player turns up in like manner the next card of the heap from which the card paired was taken. This continues until the second player has turned the uppermost cards of all his sixteen heaps.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile the first player having thrown aside in the course of this pairing process the top cards of several of his heaps, these heaps are now each headed by a turned-down card. These he now turns up, as the second player did with his, and at the same time throws aside any which may be paired by the adversary. In this way the game proceeds, each playing alternately, till no further discard on either side is practicable.</p>
		<p>When this stage is reached, and there are no more cards, among the thirty-two exposed, which can be paired, the four "grace" cards on either side are one by one turned up. This continues until either all the cards have been paired, and the game is won, or no card (of those still exposed) responds to the call of Sympathy, in which case the game is lost.</p>
		<p>This game may be made more difficult by dealing, instead of sixteen, <i>seventeen</i> heaps of three cards each; and having only one grace card on either side. In other respects the course of the game will be exactly the same as above described.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
