<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>41. The Blockade</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">41. The Blockade</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU lay out in the first place a horizontal row of cards, side by side. The first ace that comes to hand is laid, for use as a foundation card, just above this row, in the position of the ace of spades in the figure.</p>
		<p>The eight aces are the foundation cards, and the object of the game is to assemble upon them cards of their own suits in regular sequence, from ace up to king inclusive. When the first row of twelve cards has been laid out as above, you have first to consider whether you can cover any ace which may have presented itself, with the corresponding two, three, and so on. This done, your next endeavour will be, with the remaining cards of the row, to form provisional descending sequences of like suit. If for example the seven, eight and nine of spades are exposed simultaneously, you may lay the eight on the nine, the seven on the eight, and so on. The places thereby left vacant you fill up with cards from the pack, and proceed as before to form series as far as practicable; in ascending sequence on the foundation cards, and in descending sequence on the auxiliary cards. When you can do this no longer, and there are no more vacancies to fill up in the existing row, you deal below this a second row, also of twelve cards, and proceed with this as you did with the first row. So soon as a vacancy occurs in the second row, the card above it in the first row becomes available; but no use can be made of any card in the first row, so long as there is a card beneath it in the second.</p>
		<p>After the same fashion you continue to lay out row after row till all the cards of the pack are exhausted; stopping each time that you lay out a row, and repeating the process above described, keeping, however, constantly in mind that those cards only are available which are not "blocked"; <i>i.e.</i>, have no card immediately below them in the row following. In the course of the game vacancies will frequently occur in the upper rows; these must at once be filled up from the stock.</p>
		<p>Our illustration only exhibits the <i>tableau</i> as far as the second row, represented by outline cards.</p>
		<p class="bottom">To win the game you must have completed the eight families, from ace to king inclusive. No second deal is allowed.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> In the game m above described the chances ate in favour of the player.
		Where he fails, it will be by getting a given card in a lower row <i>immediately
		below a smaller card of the same suit</i>, the former blocking the latter, and so
		preventing the employment of cither.</p>
		<p class="ref">The permission to form auxiliary sequences is a concession of donbtfiil wisdom, as tending unduly to increase the chances of the player.</p>

		<p class="ref top">This Patience is sometimes played after a diflerent fashion, as follows:</p>
		<p class="ref">Two packs are used, as in the game above described. <i>Ten</i> (not twelve) cards
		are laid out. If there are any aces among them, they are placed in a vertical row
		on the right, and any kings in a vertical row on the right. These form the foundations of ascending and descending sequences, following suit in the usual way.</p>
		<p class="ref">Any available cards having been played to these, and the vacancies thereby
		created filled up from the pack, a second row is dealt, and treated in like manner;
		then a third, and so on throughout the pack, cards being played to the foundations
		when possible, but subject to tlie restriction that only the lower row for the time
		being can be made use of, though the removal of a card in this row brings into play
		(as described in the text) the card immediately above it, and in like manner with
		the higher rows.</p>
		<p class="ref">When all the cards ate laid out, both the top and bottom row come into play,
		and any card in other rows with a vacant space <i>above</i> or <i>below</i> it may be used.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
