<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>32. The Constitution</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">32. The Constitution</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>AKING a couple of whist packs, you shuffle them thoroughly, and, after cutting, lay out upon the table eight cards in a row face upwards, then a second row of eight cards, but at such a distance from the first as to leave room for a third row between them. (Our illustration shows the upper and lower row indicated by fully drawn cards, with the needful spaces between.)</p>
		<p>You then take notice whether any card of the lower row corresponds in ascending sequence, irrespective of suit, with a card of the upper row, and if so, place it in the intervening space, below the latter. You have thus commenced the formation of the intermediate row, represented in the diagram by outline cards. When no more of the cards originally laid out can be thus employed in the middle row, you deal (from the cards in the hand) on each card of the lower row a fresh card, at the same time filling up the vacancies just made. Any of these new cards which may be in sequence (as above mentioned) to any of the upper row you place, as before, below them.</p>
		<p>So soon as the middle row is complete (but not before) you are permitted to take from the lower row the cards next higher in sequence (still irrespective of suit) and lay them on the corresponding cards of the intermediate row, thereby forming separate heaps. When a given heap has reached such a stage that it only lacks the card lying above it in the upper row, you place such card upon it, and complete the series (of thirteen cards) accordingly.</p>
		<p>In this Patience you are only entitled to deal once through the cards. Unless, in so doing, you have been able to play all the cards to their respective heaps, you have lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
