<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>30. The Crescent</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">30. The Crescent</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">F</span>ROM your two packs you pick out an ace and king of eight cards in two rows, the four aces forming the upper, and the four kings the lower row. The remaining cards you divide, after duly shuffling them, into sixteen heaps, each of six cards, laid face upwards, in the form of a semi-circle, round the eight foundation cards, as shown in our illustration.</p>
		<p>You then take notice whether any of the uppermost cards of these heaps can be played to the foundation cards. On the aces the cards are to be played in ascending sequence, on the kings in descending sequence, but only cards of like suit can be grouped together. If two or more of the uppermost cards of the heaps form a sequence, of whatever value (so long as they duly follow suit), they should be laid, one upon the other, on the same heap.</p>
		<p>When you can no longer employ any of the uppermost cards, you take out the undermost card of each heap, lay it on the top of such heap, and again take note whether this, the now uppermost card, can be played to either of the foundation cards. If any card chance to correspond in ascending sequence to the <i>ace</i> series, and likewise in descending sequence to the <i>king</i> series, you place it provisionally between the two rows, and ultimately play to it to that heap to which first falls a card continuing the sequence.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> (This rule prevails in all Patiences involving the formation of both ascending and descending sequences.)</p>
		<p class="bottom">The transfer of the undermost cards to the top of their respective heaps may be thrice repeated. If by that time you have not attained the desired object, you have lost the game.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> Thus, suppose the ace sequence in clubs has been completed up to <i>seven</i> inclusive, and the king sequence to <i>nine</i> inclusive. An eight is turned up. Obviously it might be played to either. In such a case it is placed between the rows, to wait the appearance of a seven or a nine of the same suit. If a <i>seven</i> of clubs first appeals, both cards will be played to the king (or descending) series; if a nine, both will be played to the ace (or ascending) series.</p>
		<p class="ref">It will be observed that the rule in question can only apply where more than one pack is used, inasmuch as it is <i>fourteenth</i> card of the suit which decides the issue.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
