<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>7. The Demon</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">7. The Demon</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">S</span>HUFFLE, cut, and from the top of the pack count off thirteen cards, which place on the table in a packet, face upwards. These consistitute the “stock”. The next four cards are laid out in a row, also face upwards, and are known as the “head of columns”. The next card dealt is called a “base”, and is laid, somewhat inappropriately in view of its name, just above the first column. The three corresponding cards (<i>e.g.</i>, three knaves if the first base be a knave), are in like manner placed, as they come to hand, over the heads of the other three columns, and likewise become bases. The cards remaining in hand are the “reserve”.</p>
		<p>The object of the player is to build sequences upwards from the bases <i>in their proper suits</i>; and downwards from the heads of columns in alternate colours. Should the cards of one column fit on to another, so to speak, <i>i.e.</i>, should the top card, for the time being, of one column be the next lower than the bottom card of another column, and of different colour, the former column is joined on to the latter, the top card of the stock being transferred to the vacant spot to start a fresh column. In like manner, the top card of either column, if appropriate, may be played to either of the bases. It is best to make the cards of the columns overlaps, but in the case of the bases, the higher card should be laid squarely on the top of the lower.</p>
		<p>Thus, suppose the lay-out at starting to be as shown in the diagram. In this case the eight of hearts may at once be played upon the nine of clubs, its place being supplied by the king of hearts, the top card of the stock. As soon as the knave of spades appears the queen of spades will be laid upon it.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, the first step is to take three cards from the top of the reserve, and lay them, in a packet, face upwards. Should the uppermost card be a knave, it will be laid beside the two already on the table. Should it be a seven of spades or clubs, it will be played on the eight of hearts,</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
