<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>12. The Four Marriages</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">12. The Four Marriages</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">H</span>AVING duly shuffled the two packs together, take the first thirteen cards that come to hand. Look them over, and if any are duplicates in the point of value, return one of them to the pack, and take another, so that the thirteen cards, though not arranged in any regular order, shall in fact form a complete sequence, irrespective of suit. Place these thirteen cards, squared together, face upwards on the table.</p>
		<p>This done, begin to deal to a waste-heap. As aces and twos appear, place them (one only of each suit), as shown in Diagram 1, round the packet already on the table. These are foundation cards, to which you will play as circumstances permit, in accordance with the conditions following.</p>
		<p>The object of the game is to form ascending suit-sequences on the eight foundation cards, but sequences of a rather exceptional kind. On each ace is to be laid the corresponding ace, then the three, five, seven, nine, knave, king, four, six, eight, ten, queen; and on each two the corresponding two, four, six, eight, ten, queen, three, five, seven, nine, knave, king. The final appearance of the lay-out, in the event of success, will be as shown in Diagram 2, representing the four “marriages” which give the title to the game.</p>
		<p>The top card for the time being of the auxiliary heap in the centre is always available for use, as well as the top card for the time being of the waste-heap. Where both are suitable, preference should be given to the former.</p>
		<p>When the stock is exhausted, the waste-heap is turned over, and dealt afresh, and this may be again repeated. If in these three attempts the player has not succeeded in placing the whole of the cards, he has lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
