<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>22. The Fairest (No. 2)</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">22. The Fairest (№. 2)</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE game described in the preceding section may be varied as follows:— You take as foundation cards an <i>ace</i>, a <i>two</i>, a <i>three</i>, and a <i>four</i>, and build up upon them as described in the last case series of cards in regular succession, advancing by one point for the first series, two for the second, three for the third, and four for the fourth. The cards which cannot be used, as not answering these conditions, are dealt in any order you please to form waste-heaps in a row below the four principal cards. From these latter heaps you may only take the uppermost cards for the time being, until, these having found employment, those beneath them are thereby released.</p>
		<p>The success of the game depends to a great extent on the judgment with which you form the four waste-heaps, and on the skill with which you avoid covering cards which are likely to be speedily required with others which cannot be employed until a later period of the game.</p>
		<p>As the kings, which count <i>thirteen</i>, can only be employed at the last, it is well to lay them in a heap by themselves.</p>
		<p>In our illustration the four waste-heaps are represented as partially formed. Before reaching this stage, however, it is probable that a greater or less number of cards would already have found employment. This would certainly be the case with the <i>four</i> and the <i>eight</i> the lower row, which would have been played on the two, and the four respectively.</p>
		<p>You are not in this case entitled to deal the cards a second time.</p>
		<p>If the Patience has been brought to a successful issue the player will be in a position to perform the subsidiary feat described in the preceding section. To do this, he must lay the fourth heap on the third, the third on the second, and the second on the first, so that when the cards are turned over, the ace, which formed the first of the foundation cards, shall become the uppermost card of the pack.</p>
		<p>The cards may then be dealt face downwards in the fashion already indicated (see <a href="thefairest1.xhtml#card-table"><span class="sc">21. The Fairest</span></a>), with the result above described.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
