<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>33. The Four Corners</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">33. The Four Corners<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU lay out twelve cards, as shown in our illustration, beginning at the left-hand side; first the left-hand corner card at top (placed diagonally), then the four cards placed vertically on that side, and finally the lower corner card on that side. You then repeat the same operation on the opposite side, beginning with the right-hand top corner card and leaving between the two vertical rows space for eight “foundation” cards. These are four aces and four kings, one of each suit, and the object of the Patience is to build up on each of the four kings the complete suit in descending sequence, and on each of the four aces the complete suit in ascending sequence.</p>
		<p>The first twelve cards having been laid out as above, you proceed to deal the remaining cards one by one upon them, in the same order, till the whole of the cards are exhausted, in so doing carefully observing the rules following:—</p>
		<p>The eight foundation cards (four aces and four kings), as turned in the course of the deal (and whether they would otherwise belong to the “side” or “corner” heaps) are forth-with placed in their appointed positions in the centre. Any cards suitable to be played on these (<i>e.g.</i>, the <i>queen</i> of same suit as a king, or the <i>two</i> of the same suit as an ace already deposited) are forthwith laid upon them, if they fall to either of the comer heaps, but if such a card falls to either of the side heaps, it can only be used if the foundation card to which it is in sequence chances to lie next to such heap. Whenever a card turned up is played to a foundation card, that which follows takes the place it would otherwise have occupied.</p>
		<p>When all the cards have been dealt out after this fashion these restrictions are relaxed. You are now entitled to play the uppermost card of <i>any one</i> of the twelve heaps to any appropriate foundation, thereby liberating others which may be below it for further employment. You may also, with the upper-most cards of tlie twelve heaps, by shifting one upon another, establish provisional sequences, cither ascending or descending, thereby probably releasing other cards, lower down in the heap, for play to the foundation cards. Such sequences may, in case of need, be reversed; if, for example, one heap is headed by a sequence varying from <i>two</i> to <i>eight</i> inclusive, and another heap is headed by a <i>nine</i> of the same suit, you may play the eight on the nine, the seven on the eight, and so on, till the two becomes uppermost and probably available for play.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>
		<p>When no further use can be made in any way of the upper-most cards, you pick up the twelve packets in the same order in which you laid them down (<i>i.e.</i>, left-hand top corner first, and so on), and deal them out afresh, then continuing the play as before. In case of need this may be done a second time.</p>
		<p class="bottom">The game is won when every card has found employment in due order on one or other of the foundations.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> It will be observed that the title of this Patience is almost identical with that of <a href="thecorners.xhtml"><span class="sc">38. The Corners</span></a>, but the two games have no other point of resemblance.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> As in the event of there being an ace of the same suit uncovered. In such case the series would forthwith be pbyed in reverse order to such ace.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
