<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>19. The Four Seasons</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">19. The Four Seasons</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU first pick out from the pack the four aces, and place them in a. vertical row, red and black alternately, as shown In the figure. You then shuffle and cut the rest of the pack, and having done so, place on either side of the aces a vertical row of six cards. If in so doing you turn up a card in ascending sequence to either of the aces (<i>i.e.</i>, in the first instance a two, and so on), you place it upon such ace, and in like manner with any higher card in sequence to one already played. The gaps thereby left in the two side rows are made good by cards from the stock, until there is no longer any card which can be played to the centre row. You must then take notice whether in the two outer rows there chance to be any two cards of like suit in sequence to one another, and if so, play the smaller upon the larger, filling up the void thereby created with a card from the pack. It may be that by this means one or more cards become playable to the centre row. All the cards of such series will then be transferred to the top of the appropriate heap, and their place again supplied by a fresh card. You proceed in the same manner until the four aces form the foundations of four complete suits, from ace up to king inclusive.</p>
		<p>Cards which in the course of the deal cannot be employed either in the centre row or side rows, are played to a waste-heap to form a new stock. If the player deals through such new stock without having been able to transpose every card to its proper place above the corresponding ace, he has lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
