<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>21. The Fairest (No. 1)</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">21. The Fairest (№. 1)</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">F</span>ROM a whist pack, you take out an <i>ace</i>, two <i>twos</i>, a <i>three</i>, two <i>fours</i>, a <i>six</i>, and an <i>eight</i>, and lay them out upon the table as shown in our illustration. The first row consists of the series, ace, two, three, four; in the second, below this, will be found, arranged In regular order, but without regard to suit, four cards, each double that of the corresponding card of the first row. That is to say, below the ace you place the second <i>two</i>, below the first <i>two</i> the second <i>four</i>, below the <i>three</i> the <i>six</i>, and below the <i>four</i> of the first row the <i>eight</i>.</p>
		<p>You then shuffle the remainder of the cards; and after cutting, deal them, beside the <i>tableau</i> formed as above, one by one to a waste-heap. Whenever you turn up a card representing the combined value of any given couple of cards (one in the top and one in the bottom row), you place it on the card of the lower row. For instance, the card below the <i>ace</i> is a <i>two</i>. The sum of these two cards being <i>three</i>, as soon as you turn up a three, you will place it on the two. The sum of the <i>two</i> in the top row and the card below it (<i>four</i>) being <i>six</i>, so soon as a six shall present itself you will place it on the four in the lower row, and so on.</p>
		<p>In this game no regard whatever is paid to <i>suit</i>, the <i>value</i> of the cards being alone considered. An <i>ace</i> counts one, a deuce <i>two</i>, and so on; knaves counting eleven, queens twelve, and kings <i>thirteen</i>.</p>
		<p>You continue to place on each card of the lower row, as opportunity offers, such card as shall be equal to the sum of the two upper and lower cards for the time being. If the sum of such two cards exceeds <i>thirteen</i>, you deduct thirteen from it, and reckon the overplus only. Supposing for instance that you have a <i>queen</i> (value 12), below the <i>four</i> of the upper row, the sum of these two cards being sixteen, you subtract thirteen from sixteen, and the difference being three, you place, when opportunity offers, a three on the queen. This rule applies to every case in which the total of the two cards exceeds thirteen. Thus if the total were <i>fifteen</i>, you would place a two on the lower card; if <i>fourteen</i>, an <i>ace</i>.</p>
		<p>When the sum of the two cards is exactly thirteen, you can only place on the lower card a <i>king</i>, which is equivalent to that number. This done, that particular heap is closed; you can make no further addition to it. To win the game, each of the four heaps must at the close be surmounted by a king.</p>
		<p>When you have dealt through the pack, you take up the waste-heap, consisting of the cards you have not been able to utilize; and proceed to deal them a second time without disturbing their order. You may do this <i>twice</i> (making three deals in all), but if at the close of the last attempt, you have not succeeded in placing all the cards, the game is lost.</p>
		<p>If you have brought the game to a successful issue, it will be found that the cards of the top row and the heaps below each of them, form regular series, as under.</p>

		<table class="invisible" id="card-table">
			<tr><td class="noborder left"><i>Ace</i></td> <td class="noborder left"><i>Two</i></td> <td class="noborder left"><i>Three</i></td> <td class="noborder left"><i>Four</i></td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Two</td> <td class="noborder left">Four</td> <td class="noborder left">Six</td> <td class="noborder left">Eight</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Three</td> <td class="noborder left">Six</td> <td class="noborder left">Nine</td> <td class="noborder left">Queen</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Four</td> <td class="noborder left">Eight</td> <td class="noborder left">Queen</td> <td class="noborder left">Nine</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Five</td> <td class="noborder left">Ten</td> <td class="noborder left">Two</td> <td class="noborder left">Seven</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Six</td> <td class="noborder left">Queen</td> <td class="noborder left">Five</td> <td class="noborder left">Knave</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Seven</td> <td class="noborder left">Ace</td> <td class="noborder left">Eight</td> <td class="noborder left">Two</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Eight</td> <td class="noborder left">Three</td> <td class="noborder left">Knave</td> <td class="noborder left">Six</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Nine</td> <td class="noborder left">Five</td> <td class="noborder left">Ace</td> <td class="noborder left">Ten</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Ten</td> <td class="noborder left">Seven</td> <td class="noborder left">Four</td> <td class="noborder left">Ace</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Knave</td> <td class="noborder left">Nine</td> <td class="noborder left">Seven</td> <td class="noborder left">Five</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">Queen</td> <td class="noborder left">Knave</td> <td class="noborder left">Ten</td> <td class="noborder left">Nine</td></tr>
			<tr><td class="noborder left">King</td> <td class="noborder left">King</td> <td class="noborder left">King</td> <td class="noborder left">King<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></td></tr>
		</table>

		<p>Furthermore, when the Patience succeeds, <i>i.e.</i>, when the heaps in the lower row are each completed up to king, it gives an opportunity for a rather effective card-trick, as follows:—</p>
		<p>Take in hand face upwards the exposed <i>ace</i>, and upon it lay the first heap; then the <i>two</i>, and on it the second heap; the <i>three</i>, and on it the third heap, and in like manner on the fourth card the last heap. Turn over the re-united pack, so as to have it face downwards in the hand, and then lay out in a row, face downwards, the thirteen cards of the first heap, (which are now at the top). Immediately below this you deal out a <i>second</i> row, beginning under the <i>second</i> card of the first row, then under the <i>fourth</i>, then the <i>sixth</i>, and so on till you come to the last but one of the upper row; then go back to the beginning of the row and fill up, in due order, the vacant spaces, thus completing the second row.</p>
		<p>You then deal a third row, beginning below the <i>third</i> card of the second row; miss two, which will bring the next under the <i>sixth</i> card, again miss two and place a card below the <i>ninth</i>, and then again below the twelfth card, each time missing two spaces. Your fifth card will fall below the second of the previous row, your sixth beneath the fifth, your seventh below the eighth, and your eighth below the eleventh of the preceding row. You then go back to the beginning, and fill the gaps in due order, thus completing the third row.</p>
		<p>The fourth row starts below the <i>fourth</i> card of the preceding row. You now miss <i>three</i> places each time, so that your second card will fall in the <i>eighth</i> place. The third you will lay in the twelfth place, then go back to the third place, and so on, each time missing three places, till the fourth row is complete.</p>
		<p>You have now laid out the whole of the pack. Turn the cards up, and it will be found that the first vertical row consists of the four aces, the second of the four twos, the third of the four threes, and so on; the last but one consisting of the four queens, and the last of the four kings.</p>
		<p class="bottom">This result will cause considerable surprise to any one who has not taken special note of the system on which the cards were in the first place arranged.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> It will be observed that each series is in arithmetical progression, the first series advancing by unity, the second by two, the third by three, and the fourth by four.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
