<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>45. The Juvenile</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">45. The Juvenile</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS game probably derives its name from the fact consists of a series of small sums in simple addition, and may therefore be artfully commended to the juvenile player, with the unacknowledged design of improving his arithmetical faculties. It is, however, a good game of its kind, and not to be despised by the player of larger growth.</p>
		<p>Having (as usual) duly shuffled and cut the cards, you proceed to lay out face upwards, in rows of four, sixteen packets of four cards each. There will be eight cards over; these you divide into two packets of four each, and lay them, as reserves, face downwards, on the table on either side of the sixteen heaps (see the diagram).</p>
		<p>From the sixteen heaps you remove in couples, without regard to suit, such cards as taken together make a total of fourteen points. Each card is reckoned at its intrinsic value; an ace as one, a two as two, a three as three, and so on, the knave counting eleven, the queen twelve, and the king thirteen. An ace must therefore be coupled with a king, a knave with a three, an eight with a six, a seven with a seven, and in like manner throughout.</p>
		<p>You should take particular care, when cards of like value present themselves on two or more heaps, to take the one lying on the largest heap, it being to your advantage to diminish the heaps in equal proportion.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p>When among the cards for the time being uppermost there are no longer any two which together make a total of fourteen, you turn over one of the four-card packets, and see whether the uppermost card of this will combine with one of those already exposed to form the requisite number; should such be the case the other cards of the “reserve” pack will doubtless enable you to make new combinations, and so to remove yet other cards. If this is not practicable, or if all four cards of the first auxiliary packet are exhausted, you have recourse to the second packet of four, and proceed with it in like manner.</p>
		<p class="bottom">If, under the conditions stated, you are enabled to remove, two by two, the whole of the cards, you have won the game. If, on the other hand, two or more heaps are at the close left on the table, neither of whose uppermost cards can be paired with another to make fourteen, the game is lost.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> As vacancies not in this case filled up, there is nothing gained by clearing up a given heap. On the contrary, it is to your advantage lo have as many cards exposed as possible, and this is favoured by playirig from the larger heaps.</p>
		<p class="ref">If on looking through the heaps, which you are permitted in this game to do, you find <i>in the same heap</i> two cards making fourteen, it is advisable to play one of them as quickly as possible.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
