<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>37. The Kingdom</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">37. The Kingdom</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">P</span>ICK out a single ace (of any suit) from the two packs, and, after having duly shuffled and cut the remaining cards, deal eight of them in a horizontal row face upwards. The ace which you removed you place, as shown in the figure, below the first card to the left. The other aces, as they come to hand, will be placed under the remaining cards of the row, as shown by the outline cards in the figure.</p>
		<p>Each of the eight aces serves as the foundation of an ascending sequence, terminating with king, without regard to <i>suit</i>. Thus on an ace of hearts may be played a <i>two</i> of spades or of diamonds, and so on. Having removed from the top row any aces which may chance to be therein included, and any cards which can be played in ascending sequence thereon, you fill up the vacancies thereby created in the row, and with the remaining cards in the hand begin to deal one by one to a waste-heap. Whenever an ace appears, it is placed in position as indicated. If a card appears whose value suits one or other of the heaps, it is played thereto, or it may be used to complete the row of auxiliary cards, when a card of such row has been played to the foundations.</p>
		<p>Whenever a card of the waste-heap is thus employed, the card next below it becomes available for use, and this card also should be employed at the earliest possible opportunity, so as to prevent the accumulation of the waste-heap.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">If you have played through the cards without having completed the eight sequences, from ace to king inclusive, you have lost the game. It is not in this case allowable to deal a second time through the waste-heap.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> The waste-heap is of course dealt face upwards.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> This is reasonable, the permission to form the sequences <i>irrespective of suit</i> being an extraordinary assistance to the player. With ordinary luck, the chances are much in his favour.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
