<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>60. The “Louis” Patience</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">60. The “Louis” Patience</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">F</span>ROM one of the two packs you remove the four aces and the four kings, and lay them in two horizontal rows, as depicted in our illustration. These eight cards are to form the foundations of as many sequences, in each case following suit, but in that of the kings in descending, in that of the aces in ascending order.</p>
		<p>The cards having been duly shuffled and cut, you next lay out round the foundation-cards twelve auxiliaries. The position of these is indicated on the diagram by outline cards, marked with letters of the alphabet; you begin the laying out of the cards at the point <i>a,</i> and gradually work round, through <i>b, c, d,</i> and so on till you complete the round with the card marked <i>m</i>. If among these auxiliary cards there are any which, according to the rules above laid down, are playable to the foundations, they are at once played thereto, the next card on the pack taking the place of the one so played.</p>
		<p>When the circle is completed, you deal a second, third, and so on, in the same order upon the cards already dealt. These form auxiliary heaps, but the uppermost cards of these, when they have once been laid down, cannot be made use of in play until the whole of the cards have been dealt.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> This done, if the uppermost cards of two or more auxiliary heaps cannot be played direct to a foundation, they may be shifted, duly following suit, from one heap to another, so as to form with other uppermost cards auxiliary sequences, either ascending or descending.</p>
		<p>When you can do nothing more with the cards as they lie, you pick up the heaps once more, collecting them in the following order, <i>g, h, i, k, l, m, a, b, c, d, e, f</i>; and, <i>without shuffling</i>, deal them out again as at first. As a result of this redistribution it will often happen that some card becomes simultaneously playable in descending sequence to one of the “king” foundations, or in ascending sequence to one of the “ace” foundations. In such case you are entitled to lay it provisionally near the one or the other, and ultimately to play it to that one to which a continuing card first falls.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">The cards may be thrice distributed. If at the close of the third deal you have not succeeded in duly playing all to their respective foundations, you have lost the game.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> Any card turned up in the course of the deal may at once be played (if its suit and value permit) to a given foundation. But if it is not so played, and another card is dealt, the first then ceases to be playable until ihe whole are distributed.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> Suppose, for example, that you have a “king” sequence, headed for the time being by a nine, and an “ace” sequence headed by a <i>seven</i>. An <i>eight</i> of the same suit would be playable to either. Should such a card appear, you hold it in abeyance as above. Should a <i>seven</i> of the same suit afterwards turn up, both cards will be played to the “king” sequence, but should a <i>nine</i> be the first to appear, both would be played to the “ace” series.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
