<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>43. The Lady of the Manor</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">43. The Lady of the Manor</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>



		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">F</span>IRST take out the eight aces, and arrange them in a double row along the side of the table next you. Then, having thoroughly shuffled the cards, count olif from the top four packets of twelve cards each, and lay these just beyond the further row of aces. You now lay out the remaining cards in twelve heaps, forming a semicircle; the first, reckoning from the left, must comprise all the twos which still remain in the pack, the second heap all the threes; the next all the fours, and so on; the twelfth (and last) on the extreme right, consisting of such of the kings as may be left among the remaining cards.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p>The object of this Patience is to get together on the eight aces eight complete series in ascending sequence; commencing with ace, and terminating with king. These eight scries are to be formed irrespective of suit. To this end you first make use of the cards afforded by the four larger heaps (those next above the aces), of which the uppermost cards should be removed and used at the earliest possible opportunity, so that the cards below them may become free for employment in the same way. Only when these four heaps no longer afford any card available to be played to the sequences, should you have recourse to the twelve heaps of the semicircle, its being more to your advantage first to exhaust, as far as you can, the four larger heaps. There is nothing gained by endeavouring to complete the sequences one after another in regular succession; on the contrary, it is better to leave them incomplete until the needful cards offer themselves on the four larger heaps.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">To win the game, you must have played to their respective foundations all the cards not only of the four larger heaps, but of the twelve in the semicircle, and must have formed therewith eight complete sequences, from ace up to king inclusive.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> It is of course conceivable ihat there may be among the remaining cards none of a given value, say fives or sevens. In such case Ihe place of such cards will be left vacant till they appear in course of play.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> The more sequences the player has open, the better his chance of getting rid of cards from the la^er heaps, which should be his first consideration. If he succeeds in exhausting these font heaps, the remaining cards will aa a matter of course be playable.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
