<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>1. The Original Patience</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">1. The Original Patience</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS is the parent game, from which all the rest have sprung.</p>
		<p>After thorough shuffling, as above recommended, deal the cards face upwards, one by one into four heaps in a row. You are not however bound to from all four heaps immediately. Thus if the first card dealt should be King, and the a Queen, you would, with a view to more convenient future which may turn up, in like manner, the vacancy made by the removal of the card being at once supplied from the pack. When no more cards among those dealt are available, you deal round a second circle outside the others (proceeding as before) and finally a third circle, so that each ray of the star consists, at this stage, of four cards.</p>
		<p>With regard to the outer circle you have a special privilege. Should two cards appear in sequence at the extremity of different rays, as a nine and ten of <i>hearts</i>, you may place the lower on the higher, in anticipation of being able, as occasion serves to play both together to one of the ascending sequences. The blank space thus created gives an opening for a fresh card.</p>
		<p>If by any chance you are able to clear away all three outer cards of a given ray, you are entitled to fill the vacant spaces with cards from the extremities of any of the other rays, again making way for fresh cards from the pack.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
