<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>57. The Octagon</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">57. The Octagon</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">R</span>EMOVING the eight aces, you lay them out in pairs, face upwards, as shown in the annexed illustration; and across each of the open spaces left at the corners place a packet of five auxiliary cards, laid slantwise, so as to form an octagon. The eight aces are to form the foundations of the same number of families, to be built up in ascending sequence, each of a single suit. On these foundation cards you lay (if they chance to be playable according to the above conditions) the uppermost cards of the auxiliary heaps, each card removed releasing the one below it for use in like manner.</p>
		<p>You then proceed to deal the remaining cards to a waste-heap. In so doing, any which chance to be of same suit and next higher in value to the top card for the time being of either of the foundations are played thereto accordingly; and any which are of like suit and next <i>lower</i> in value to the top card for the time being of either of the auxiliary heaps are laid upon such card, until the latter has reached such a point that its uppermost card becomes playable to one or other of the foundations. In such case the whole heap (so far as the cards are in sequence) will be played to such foundation. In the event of the complete clearance of the heap, the vacancy thereby created is filled up by a card from the top of the waste-heap.</p>
		<p>You are entitled to deal three times through the waste-heap. If by that time you have not succeeded in playing every card, whether of the waste- or auxiliary heaps, to its proper position, the game is lost.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
