<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>38. The Patriarchs</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">38. The Patriarchs</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE cards having been duly shuffled and cut, you pick kings, one of each suit, and lay them in perpendicular rows, the aces on the left hand and the kings on the right. You then deal from the stock, and lay out between them, nine cards, in three rows of three each; these nine are the auxiliary cards. The aces and kings constitute the foundations, the kings for descending sequences, terminating with ace; the aces for ascending sequences, terminating with king. Each series must throughout be of the same suit as its foundation card.</p>
		<p>If any of the auxiliary cards are playable, in accordance with the rules above laid down, to the foundations, you supply the place of the cards so used with others from the stock, and then proceed to turn up one by one the remaining cards. If in so doing cards present themselves which can be played to an ascending or descending sequence, they are added to their respective “families”. You must take care, in dealing to the waste-heap, to keep a sharp eye on the nine auxiliary cards for the time being, and if either becomes playable, play it at once accordingly. The vacancy thereby created should then be filled up with the uppermost card of the waste-heap. This uppermost card of the waste-heap has the first claim to fill any vacancy, or to be played to any of the foundation heaps for which it is suitable. The card which by its removal becomes the uppermost card, has then a similar right of precedence.</p>
		<p>You are permitted in this Patience to gather up the waste-heap, and deal once again, in the same manner as before, the cards of which it consists. Should all the cards have by that time found their places in the foundation heaps, forming four complete sequences from ace to king inclusive, and four others from king to ace, you have won the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
