<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>58. The Picture Gallery</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">58. The Picture Gallery</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS is rather a pretty Patience. Having thoroughly two packs, you take out a king of hearts, and lay it on your left hand just above the lower edge of the table, as represented in the diagram; the remaining cards you lay one by one upon such king, until an <i>ace</i>, a <i>queen</i>, or <i>another king</i> comes to hand. An ace you lay in the <i>middle</i> row, a queen in the <i>upper</i> row, or a king in the <i>lower</i> row, next the one already placed there. (The positions of these three rows respectively are indicated in the diagram by blank cards.)</p>
		<p>When a second king comes to hand, you lay the cards next following upon such second king, and so on with each king that appears.</p>
		<p>The aces are to form the foundations for eight families to be built up in ascending sequence, but without distinction of suit, and terminating with knave. Whenever a card appears (of no matter what suit) which is playable to either of the foundations, it is to be forthwith played thereto; you should also take careful note whether the uppermost cards for the time being of either of the “king” heaps is suitable for that purpose. Each card played frees the one beneath it for employment in like manner. If you are able to clear away the whole of a packet, leaving the king alone, you are entitled to lay upon such king the uppermost card of either of the other heaps.<a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">The cards are to be only once played through, and to win the game you must have completed every sequence up to knave inclusive, leaving all the kings exposed. <i>The Picture Gallery</i> will then exhibit three rows of court cards, the first row consisting of the queens, the second of the knaves, and the last of the kings.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> As the cards are only to be dealt once through, this grace might, we think, be extended to (say) a <i>maximum</i> of the three uppermost cards of either heap.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
