<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>54. The Plait</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">54. The Plait</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE cards of the two packs having been duly shuffled twenty of them (overlapping each other like a plait) in a perpendicular line upon the table, as depicted in the central portion of the illustration on the preceding page. At each corner, above and below, a single card is to be placed, and on either side the plait a row of four other cards, laid transversely. (It will be observed that the diagram shows in addition, next to these transversely placed cards, on either side a row of four cards in <i>outline</i> only; these indicate the positions in which the foundation-cards are to be laid.)</p>
		<p>The <i>tableau</i> having been duly formed as above, you turn up the uppermost card of the stock. The nature of such card determines the foundation-card for the eight sequences. Should such card prove to be, say, a knave or a seven, all cards of like value, whether found among the auxiliary cards or forming the last card of the “plait”, are transferred to one or other of the positions indicated by the outline cards, where they will form the foundations for complete sequences of like suit, and in ascending order.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> Any vacancies thereby created at the four “corners” will be made good by cards taken from the bottom of the plait. The cards thus removed from the plait are not replaced. Any vacancies arising among the eight auxiliaries placed transversely are supplied from the pack.</p>
		<p>The remaining cards are now dealt to a waste-heap, such as may prove suitable to form foundations or to continue sequences being used accordingly. The auxiliary cards and the lowermost card for the time being of the plait are employed in like manner, the latter, however, always having the preference. Should an available card present itself simultaneously among the auxiliary cards and at the lower end of the plait, the latter card should always be taken, the sooner to unwind the plait, which is sometimes a difficult matter. It must, however, always be borne in mind that none but the <i>last</i> card of the plait for the time being is available.</p>
		<p class="bottom">You are entitled to deal three times through the waste-heap. If by that time you have succeeded in arranging all the cards, both of the plait and the auxiliaries, in eight ascending sequences, each of a suit, you have won the game.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> When in the course of the sequence <i>king</i> is reached, it will he followed by ace, deuce, and so on, till the series of thirteen cards is complete.</p>

	</div>

</body>
</html>
