<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>34. The Reserves</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">34. The Reserves</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>AKE out from one of the two packs the four aces and the four kings, and arrange them on your right hand in two rows, as shown in the figure. Then count off four parcels of twelve cards each, and place them face upwards on the left hand, also in two rows, to form the “Reserves”, leaving room between these and the foundation cardsfor the waste heap.</p>
		<p>If either of the uppermost cards of the reserved heaps corresponds in suit and sequence (ascending) with either of the aces, or in descending sequence with either of the kings, you lay it on such ace or king. Any similar cards turned up from the stock are dealt with in like manner. If the uppermost cards of the Reserves are not available for playing to the foundation cards, but either of them forms a sequence (either ascending or descending, so long as the suit is the same) to the top card of the waste-heap, it may tie laid thereon.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">The stock may be distributed three times. To win the game, all the cards both of the Reserves and of the <i>talon</i> must have been played to the foundation cards.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> So that the two cards shall appear together when the stock is again dealt.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
