<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>42. The Sultan</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">46. The Shah</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS game resembles in effect that of <span class="sc"><a href="thesultan.xhtml">42. The Sultan</a></span>. You in the first place pick out from the united packs the eight aces and the eight kings. Of the latter you throw aside seven as <i>dead</i> (there being no use for them in this game). The eighth you place in the centre of the table, and round it, in a circle, arrange the eight aces, as shown in our illustration.</p>
		<p>The single king, known as the Shah, remains in solitary state throughout the game. The aces form foundation cards, and the object of the game is to build up upon these complete ascending sequences from two to queen inclusive, of their respective suits.</p>
		<p>You now lay out, beginning at the top and proceeding from left to right, another circle of eight cards, radiating from the eight aces. Should either of these prove suitable to be played to either of the foundations, you play them accordingly, and fill up their places in the circle with other cards fromthose still in hand. You then lay out a second circle, proceeding as above directed for the first, and finally a third, thereby completing the eight arms, or rays of the star. (This final circle is, for lack of space, omitted in our illustration.)</p>
		<p>It is now to be kept in mind that the second circle “blocks” the first, and the third the second, so that such cards only are playable to the foundations as have no other card beyond them in an outer circle; so soon therefore as the final circle is completed, the cards of such final circle are alone playable, until their employment and consequent removal frees the corresponding cards of the circle next following.</p>
		<p>When the star is completely formed, you endeavour from the cards of the outer circle to group together in descending sequence any of same suits. Thus, for example, on the <i>ten</i> of diamonds you lay the <i>nine</i>, and so on; but this may only be done with cards of the <i>outer</i> circle; those of the inner circles (even when they are set free by the removal of the corresponding outer cards) cannot be played to these subsidiary sequences, but only direct to one or other of the foundations. You are not, however, bound to play any card, whether to a foundation or to a subsidiary sequence, until a favourable opportunity offers, for very often it is better to wait until some other card likely to be speedily wanted turns up in the course of the deal, when, by playing the former card, you may leave a space open for the latter.</p>
		<p>The vacancies occurring in the course of the game must always be supplied from the pack, and in regular succession from left to right, first in the inner, and afterwards in the outer circles.</p>
		<p>If, after the complete formation of the circles and filling up of vacant spaces as above described, any cards still remain over, you go through them one by one, using any available cards either for the foundations, for the descending sequences of the outer circle, or to till up vacancies, and dealing any which may not be so employed to a waste-heap.</p>
		<p>Should you succeed in using all three cards of a given ray of the star, so that the place occupied by such ray is completely vacant, you may supply the place of the inner card with any card you please from the outer circle. This particular game being one in which the chances are against you, this privilege is often very valuable. The other two spaces (<i>i.e</i>, those in the two outer circles) are filled up, as usual, from the waste-heap.</p>
		<p>A second deal of the unplaced cards (the waste-heap) is not in this case permitted.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
