<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>47. The Spark</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">47. The Spark</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU lay out the kings of both packs in two vertical rows, always placing the two kings of the same suit side by side; these eight kings are to form the foundations of eight complete families, to be built up in descending sequence upon them.</p>
		<p>Having shuffled the remaining cards, you proceed to lay out twelve of them round about the eight kings, in manner shown in our illustration; four out of the twelve on each side of the two rows formed by the kings, two above, and two below, these last a little slantwise, so as to be the more readily distinguished from the first or last pair of kings.</p>
		<p>You then observe whether among these twelve auxiliary cards there are any which can be played in descending sequence upon the kings; or whether there are among them any cards alike in suit and in sequence as between themselves. Any cards of this latter description are to be placed in a row one upon the other, each half-covering the one below it. These cards must of course be arranged in <i>ascending</i> sequence, for otherwise it would be impossible to play them to their respective foundations. This done, you fill up with fresh cards any vacancies arising from the employment of cards as above described, taking care as you do so to play any available cards which may present themselves, either to the main sequence or to the auxiliary heaps, as the case may be.</p>
		<p>The remaining cards you deal out, but contrary to the rule of the majority of Patiences, you form therewith not <i>one</i> waste-heap, but <i>two</i>; and instead of dealing the cards one by one, you deal them by groups of three (face upwards) to the two waste-heaps alternately. Whenever a cards appears which is playable either to one of the foundations or to an auxiliary sequence, it must forthwith be played accordingly, and each card removed from either of the waste-heaps frees for use the one beneath it. You must at the same time note carefully whether, by reason of the variations which the appearance of a given card produces, other cards may not have become playable, either to the foundations or the auxiliary sequences. Any vacancies occurring in the latter may be supplied from the one or the other waste-heap, at the option of the player.</p>
		<p>When the two packs have been dealt out, if there are still remaining on the table, either in the waste-heaps or the auxiliary rows, cards which cannot be played to either of the foundations (and these consequently are not complete, to ace inclusive) you have lost the game.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
