<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>2. The Star</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">2. The Star</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE first step in this case is to pick out the kings and aces. Placing a King of Hearts to form the centre, you arrange the eight aces round it, so as to form an eight-rayed star, after the manner shown in the diagram.</p>
		<p>The remaining seven kings are thrown aside, becoming “dead” cards. After thoroughly shuffling the remaining cards, you deal one, face upwards, at the extremity of each point on the star.</p>
		<p></p>
		<p>To this end, should there be a “two” among the cards last dealt, it is laid upon one of the corresponding aces. This gives an oppurtunity of disposing of any “three” which may turn up, in like manner, the vacancy made by the removal of the card being at once supplied from the pack. When no more cards among those dealt are available, you deal round a second circle outside the others (proceeding as before) and finally a third circle, so that each ray of the star consists, at this stage, of four cards.</p>
		<p>With regard to the outer circle you have a special privilege. Should two cards appear in sequence at the extremity of different rays, as a nine and ten of <i>hearts</i>, you may place the lower on the higher, in anticipation of being able, as occasion serves to play both together to one of the ascending sequences. The blank space thus created gives an opening for a fresh card.</p>
		<p>If by any chance you are able to clear away all three outer cards of a given ray, you are entitled to fill the vacant spaces with cards from the extremities of any of the other rays, again making way for fresh cards from the pack.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
