<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>42. The Sultan</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">42. The Sultan</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>AKING out of the two packs the eight kings and a single ace of hearts, you arrange them as follows:— You lay the ace of hearts first on the table, and on either side of it a king of clubs. Below the ace of hearts you place one of the kings of hearts, with a king of diamonds on either side of it, and below this first king of hearts you place the second, supported on either side by the two kings of spades.</p>
		<p>This done, you shuffle the united packs and lay out the first eight cards, crosswise but in vertical lines (as shown in our illustration), on either side the kings. These eight are auxiliary cards, and are known as <i>The Divan</i>. You take note whether the Divan contains any cards which can be played to the "foundations", <i>viz.</i> the ace and kings. Contrary to the rule of the majority of Patiences, upon the kings are laid first the aces, then the twos, then the threes, and so on of their respective suits; forming sequences in ascending order, each of a suit and terminated by queen. Sequences are formed as above on seven kings and on the ace of hearts. On this latter card you lay the two of hearts, three of hearts and so on. The king of hearts in the centre alone remains uncovered, and takes no part in the game until the close, when he appears surrounded by eight queens, the Sultan in the midst of his Seraglio.</p>
		<p>When you have satisfied yourself that the Divan includes no more cards which you can play, after the prescribed fashion, to either of the sequences, you fill up with fresh cards any vacancies therein, and turn up the remaining cards one by one to a waste-heap, meanwhile taking care to play any available card which may turn up forthwith to its proper position. The moment that any member of the Divan is promoted to a position in one of the sequences, his place is at once filled from the stock.</p>
		<p class="bottom">You are permitted to deal <i>thrice</i> through the stock.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> If after you have done this any cards still remain unplaced in their respective sequences, you have lost the game.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> The original says: "<i>Zweilmal</i> darf der Talon durchgenommen werden", but the waste-heap is here meant, this being an instance of the erroneous use of the term <i>talon</i> referred to in the <span class="sc"><a href="introduction.xhtml#ref-asterisk">Introduction</a></span>.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
