<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>36. The Twos</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">36. The Twos</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">F</span>ROM the two packs pick out the eight <i>twos</i>, and arrange them in a double row upon the table. Then shuffle the remaining cards, and, after cutting them, deal four cards in a row, face upwards, just beyond the remoter line of twos, and on either side a vertical row of three. Between the final cards of these two rows you place the stock (the annexed diagram shows the precise positions of the cards).</p>
		<p>If among the ten auxiliary cards so displayed there are any which correspond in suit and in ascending sequence with either of the twos, they are played upon the proper foundation-card accordingly; any vacancies thereby created being forthwith filled up from the stock.</p>
		<p>You then pick up the stock, and proceed to deal to a waste-heap. Any card of like suit and in ascending sequence to the top card of a foundation-heap is played thereto. Every card corresponding in suit and in descending sequence to either of the auxiliary cards is laid upon such auxiliary card, forming a provisional series to the main sequence of the same suit as soon as the upper card of such series shall become playable thereto. The spaces tliereby left vacant are, as before, filled up from the stock.</p>
		<p>The eight main sequences terminate with their respective aces. If after dealing twice through the waste-heap there is any ace still unplaced, the game is lost.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
