<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>18. The Talkative</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">18. The Talkative</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HE cards having been shuffled and cut, you take the pack in hand, and deal the cards one by one, face upwards, to a waste-heap, counting aloud as you do so, <i>one</i>, <i>two</i>, <i>three</i>, <i>four</i>, <i>five</i>, <i>six</i>, <i>seven</i>, <i>eight</i>, <i>nine</i>, <i>ten</i>, <i>knave</i>, <i>queen</i>, <i>king</i> :— <i>one</i>, <i>two</i>, and so on. Whenever the card turned up chances to correspond with the number called, you throw it aside.</p>
		<p>Having thus worked through the pack, you pick up the cards again, without disturbing their order, and deal afresh, still calling the number, continuing from that at which you left off on the first occasion.</p>
		<p class="bottom">You may thus deal through the waste-heap as many times as you please, until you have gradually thrown out all the cards, and so won the game. But if after several attempts, the cards come up in the same order, no card answering to its number, and so enabling you to throw it out, you have failed.<a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a></p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> This game is in England usually known as the <i>Roll Call</i>. Many players remove the kings, queens and acea, and count from one to ten only.</p>
		<p class="ref">For a somewhat similar game with the piquet pack, see <span class="sc"><a href="theharvest.xhtml">5. The Harvest</a></span>.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
