<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>27. The Trefoil</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">27. The Trefoil</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU remove from the pack the four aces, and lay them in a row along the lower edge of the table. The other cards, after having well shuffled them, you lay out fanwise in sixteen groups of three each, just beyond the four aces, as shown in the figure. If the uppermost card of either of the “trefoils” so formed chances to be in sequence to either of the aces (<i>i.e.</i> to be a <i>two</i> of the same suit), you place it upon such ace. If two or more of the uppermost cards are of like suit and in sequence as between themselves, you place the lower upon the higher, in readiness to be transferred, when opportunity serves, to the principal heap. In any case, you are only allowed to shift the uppermost card of the heap; and until such card has been disposed of, those below it are not available for use. When you have no card left which can be thus dealt with, you gather the triplets together without shuffling to form a fresh stock, and lay them out anew as above described.</p>
		<p>You are permitted to deal through the stock three times. To successfully solve the problem, the thirteen cards of each suit must by that time be arranged in regular sequence from ace up to king. Failing this, you have lost the game.</p>
		<p>You may make this Patience somewhat more difficult by not removing the foundation cards (the four aces) from the pack beforehand, but only laying them out in the course of the game, as an ace chances to be the uppermost card of one of the fan-shaped heaps, or, being in the first instance one of the lower cards, is released by the employment in due course of those above it.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">This Patience may also be played with <i>two</i> whist packs. In this case eight aces are laid out, and the number of triplets is thirty-two instead of sixteen. The game proceeds as above described; but in this case you are only permitted to deal <i>once</i> through the stock.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> You may in like manner enhance the difficulty of any other of the Patiences in this book, wherein according to the instructions given the foundation cuds are to be taken from the pack and placed in position beforehand. It is obvious that leaving the foundation cards to be evolved in the course of play matetially alters the conditions of the game, for, by the time they appear, other caids which in the opposite case might have been at once played to their ultimate destinations, are in all probability blocked by other cards of higher denomination, which have come to hand in the meantime.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
