<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>3. The Travellers</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">3. The Travellers</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With a single whist pack.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS is a game of a very simple character, but nevertheless a very good one. The first step is to lay out 48 cards, face upwards, in packets of four, as shown in the diagram. These are to be regarded as numbered from 1 to 12 respectively.</p>
		<p>The player has four cards still in hand, forming the “reserve”. Looking at the first of these, he places it under the packet whose number corresponds with its value. Say that it is a six, in which case it will be placed under the sixth packet. Such packet now consists of five cards, and as the packets, according to the rule of the game, are not to consist of more than four, the top card becomes a “traveller”, <i>i.e.</i>, it is in turn removed, and transferred to the bottom of the appropriate packet. Being a seven it will in this case go under the seventh heap. This makes the nine of clubs a traveller, and it is accordingly placed under the nineth heap. The top card of that heap now becomes the traveller, but as it happens to be a King, and there is no thirteenth heap, it is thrown aside; and the player begins again with the second card of his reserve.</p>
		<p>The aim of the player is to divide all the cards, excluding the kings into twelve heaps each consisting of four like cards. But for the presence of kings, this would be easy enough, but these make all the difference to the game. One or more may be in reserve, proportionally reducing the number of fresh starts that are permissable. Or again, if two or three of them chance to be high up in the packets, they will exhaust the reserve so quickly as to make success impossible.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
