<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>61. The Wrangle</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">61. The Wrangle</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(To be played by two persons, with two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>HIS is a two-handed game. The players sit opposite to one another. Each takes one pack, and offers it to be cut by the adversary. The player who has cut <i>highiest</i> begins by placing his first thirteen cards in a heap, face upwards, on one side of the table, and close to these the next four, side by side, also face upwards, in a row before him.</p>
		<p>The second player, when it comes to his turn, does the same, taking care to leave between the two rows of exposed cards sufficient space for the eight aces. These as they come to hand in the course of the game are laid in their appointed positions, and form the foundation-cards for ascending sequences, following suit, and terminating with king.</p>
		<p>The first player now begins to turn up one after another of his remaining cards, endeavouring as he doessoto playeach card either to one of the "ace" heaps (so as to form families of same suit and in ascending sequence), or, still following suit, but in <i>descending</i> sequence, on one or other of the auxiliary heaps which are gradually formed on the four cards laid on either side the aces. The first card which the player cannot make use of in either of these ways, he lays before him as the commencement of a waste-heap.</p>
		<p>It then becomes the turn of the second player, who proceeds in like manner, but with the additional privilege that should a given card be not playable either to the main sequences, to the auxiliary heaps, or his own reserve-heap (the heap of thirteen cards), he may play it to the newly begun waste-heap, or upon the reserve-heap of his adversaiy, provided always that it is of like suit, and in ascending or descending sequence to the card on which it is played.</p>
		<p>As the game proceeds, the first player has of course the same privilege, which should be taken advantage of whenever possible, so as to increase the reserves of the adversary, and diminish his own, for the player who first gets rid of all his cards wins the game.</p>
		<p>Any of the eight reserve-heaps, in so far as it consists of cards in sequence, may be played to a given foundation so soon as the upper card becomes playable thereto. Should the heap by this means be completely removed, it is replaced by the top card of the waste-heap of the player whose turn it is to play.<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a></p>
		<p>It is generally advisable, in the case of two cards becoming simultaneously playable (whether to one of the "ace" heaps, or one of the auxiliary heaps) always to give the preference to the uppermost card of the reserve-heap.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>
		<p class="bottom">The waste-heaps are dealt through over and over again, as often as the game may require, but each player must leave his waste-heap on the table till his 'opponent is no longer able to play any card. When such is the case, he picks up his waste-heap, and proceeds in turn to play.</p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> <i>I.e</i>, the player who has just transferred the auxiliary cards to the foundation.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> As this heap consists, at the outset, of the comparatively large number of thirteen cards, which are for the time being withdrawn from play, it is well to take every opportunity of diminishing its bulk.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
