<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>39. The Windmill</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">39. The Windmill</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU begin by picking out an ace and four kings (one of each suit), placing the ace in the centre and the kings diagonally round it, as shown in our illustration. The remaining cards are then shuffled and cut, and two more cards placed at each side and end of the ace, producing a figure roughly representing the head and sails of a windmill.</p>
		<p>The object of this Patience is to build up upon the central ace in the middle of the figure, one after another, four distinct ascending sequences from ace to king inclusive, and on each of the kings in the four comers of the figure, a single descending sequence, from king to ace inclusive. The suits are not regarded, the value of each card alone determining its position.</p>
		<p>You must in the first place note carefully whether among the eight cards of the “sails” there is any which can be played, either in ascending sequence to the ace, or in descending sequence to one of the kings. You then fill up any vacancies arising in this way among the auxiliary cards, and proceed to deal the remainder of the cards to a waste-heap, meanwhile playing any available cards which may present themselves to their proper destination.</p>
		<p>If at any given moment one of the auxiliary or “sail” cards, or the top card of the waste-heap, becomes playable to one of the four comer (or “king”) series, and at the same time to the centre heap,<a href="#ref-asterisk" id="cit-asterisk">*</a> the latter should always have the preference, the collective heap of four sequences being much the more difficult to complete. When all the cards are dealt, if the Patience has come to a successful issue, there will be four sequences terminating with king, laid one upon another in the centre, surrounded by four independent series in descending sequence, each headed by an ace.</p>
		<p class="bottom">It is not in this game allowable to deal a second time through the waste-heap.<a href="#ref-dagger" id="cit-dagger">†</a></p>

		<hr/>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-asterisk" id="ref-asterisk">*</a> As for instance in the case of the centre heap having a seven, and one of the corner heaps a nine, as its uppermost caid. An eight turned up would in such case be playable to either.</p>
		<p class="ref"><a href="#cit-dagger" id="ref-dagger">†</a> Dr. Pole, <i>Cyclopædia of Card and Table Games</i>, gives a simpler version of the Windmill, with a single whist pack, as follows:</p>

		<ol>
			<li class="ref">Take the four aces from the pack, and lay them down in one heap, face upwards, to form a centre. Then, on each of the four sides of this, lay down two cards, separate, and forming a radial line from the centre; these eight cards represent the four old or original windmill sails.</li>
			<li class="ref">Then deal out the remainder of the pack, face upwards, in a <i>talon</i> or stock covering the aces.</li>
			<li class="ref">When the deuces appear, lay them in the angles between the old sails. The object of the game is to cover these deuces, in ascending sequences, regardless of suit, up to kings.</li>
			<li class="ref">For this purpose you may use any of the eight cards in the old sails, filling up their places with cards taken from the top of the <i>talon</i>; or if there is no <i>talon</i>, you fill their places by dealing from the pack. The top card of the talen is always available.</li>
			<li class="ref">When the play succeeds, by the lime you have dealt the whole pack, the four original sails will have disappeared, and the four kings will appear as new sails in a diagonal pontion, the aces forming the centre.</li>
			<li class="ref">The chances of winning are rather in your favour.</li>
		</ol>

		<p class="ref">It will be observed that the word “<i>talon</i>”, in the above description, is used as meaning “waste-heap”. See remarks on this subject, in the <span class="sc"><a href="introduction.xhtml#ref-dagger">Introduction</a></span>.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
