<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>5. The Windmill</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">5. The Windmill</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">T</span>AKE an ace and four kings, one of each suit, and with them form a lay-out as follows:–</p>
		<p>Place the ace in the centre, and the kings sloping diagonally towards it, one at each of the four corners. Throroughly shuffle the remaining cards, and deal from the top eight more cards, two at each side and end of the ace. The appearance of the cards will now be as shown in the diagram, forming a rough representation of the head of a windmill, the eight cards last placed forming the “sails”.</p>
		<p>You are now required to form on the central ace, one after the other, four ascending sequences, regardless of suit, and on each of the kings a descending sequence to ace. In the first place, you should note whether in the “sails” there is any card which can be at once utilised. In the diagram, the two of clubs can be played upon the central ace; the queen of clubs upon one of the kings (it matters not which), the knave of spades upon the queen, and one of the tens upon the knave. The spaces thus cleared must be filled with fresh cards, which, when oppurtunity offers, will be utilised in the same way.</p>
		<p>As you proceed to deal the remaining cards, any not finding a place on one or other of the sequences, must be dealt to a waste-heap, face upwards, the uppermost card of this heap being always available for use.</p>
		<p>Where the player has the option of playing a given card to either the central heap or to one of the king sequences, he should give the preference to the former, the central sequences being the more difficult to complete. If he succeeds he will, at the close, have a king in the centre surrounded by four aces.</p>
		<p>There is in this Patience no grace. If the player has dealt once through the two packs without succeeding, he must shuffle afresh and try again.</p>
		<p>There is another version of <i>The Windmill</i>, for which only one pack is used. The lay-out is formed in the same way, save that all four aces, as they appear, are laid one upon another in the centre, with the four aces diagonally round them, in the positions occupied in the diagram by the kings. The object of the player is in this case to form ascending sequences, regardless of suit, on the four deuces up to the king.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
