<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>44. The Wheatsheaf</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="red-box">

		<h2 class="heading">44. The Wheatsheaf</h2>
		<hr class="heading-line"/>
		<h3 class="heading">(With two whist packs.)</h3>
		<hr class="short-line"/>

		<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">Y</span>OU pick out four aces and four kings, one of each them as shown in our illustration in two vertical rows, the first consisting of the four aces, the second of the four kings, and the cards being so placed that the ace and king of same suit shall in each case be side by side. These four aces and four kings are to form the foundations of eight complete sequences; the kings forming the starting points of descending, and the aces of ascending series, each to be composed entirely of cards of like suit.</p>
		<p>The foundation cards having been duly placed, you form on either side of theni a row of four auxiliary cards, and take note whether any of such auxiliary cards can, in accordance with the rules above laid down, be played to the foundations.</p>
		<p>When you have filled up with fresh cards any vacancies thereby created in the ranks of the auxiliary cards, you must next carefully observe whether among such auxiliary cards there are any of like suit, and in sequence to each other. Should any such present themselves, you place them side by side in a row, or to economise space you may so place them as to lap one over another, the second half-covering the first, and so on. These eight auxiliary cards form the bases of reserve heaps, each formed from the cards of a given suit in ascending or descending sequence.</p>
		<p>If, for example, a four, five, and six of diamonds come simultaneously to hand, you may lay the five on the six, and the four on the five, or, <i>vice versâ</i>, the five on the four, and the six on the five, as may appear most advantageous.</p>
		<p>You then deal the remaining cards, other than such as may be available for play, to the foundations or reserves, to form a waste-heap. Whenever the cards of a given reserve, or the top card for the time being of the waste-heap, can be played to either of the foundations, they must be so played accordingly, any vacancies created by the employment of a reserve being forthwith filled up from the waste-heap.</p>
		<p>If by the time the pack is exhausted the four "ace" heaps are duly completed up to king, and the four "king" heaps up to ace, you have won the game; but you are not permitted to go a second time through the waste-heap.</p>

	</div>
</body>
</html>
